<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
<meta property="og:title" content="Dealing with Bugs"/>
<meta property="og:type" content="website"/>
<meta property="og:url" content="https://docs.python.org/3/bugs.xhtml"/>
<meta property="og:site_name" content="Python documentation"/>
<meta property="og:description" content="Python is a mature programming language which has established a reputation for stability. In order to maintain this reputation, the developers would like to know of any deficiencies you find in Pyt..."/>
<meta property="og:image" content="https://docs.python.org/3/_static/og-image.png"/>
<meta property="og:image:alt" content="Python documentation"/>
<meta name="description" content="Python is a mature programming language which has established a reputation for stability. In order to maintain this reputation, the developers would like to know of any deficiencies you find in Pyt..."/>
<meta property="og:image:width" content="200"/>
<meta property="og:image:height" content="200"/>
<meta name="theme-color" content="#3776ab"/>

    <title>Dealing with Bugs</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/pygments.css"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/epub.css"/>
    
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.python.org/3/bugs.html"/>
    
      
    

    
    <style>
      @media only screen {
        table.full-width-table {
            width: 100%;
        }
      }
    </style>
 

  </head>
<body>
    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="dealing-with-bugs">
<span id="reporting-bugs"></span><h1>Dealing with Bugs</h1>
<p>Python is a mature programming language which has established a reputation for
stability.  In order to maintain this reputation, the developers would like to
know of any deficiencies you find in Python.</p>
<p>It can be sometimes faster to fix bugs yourself and contribute patches to
Python as it streamlines the process and involves less people. Learn how to
<a class="reference internal" href="#contributing-to-python"><span class="std std-ref">contribute</span></a>.</p>
<section id="documentation-bugs">
<h2 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Documentation bugs</h2>
<p>If you find a bug in this documentation or would like to propose an improvement,
please submit a bug report on the <a class="reference internal" href="#using-the-tracker"><span class="std std-ref">tracker</span></a>.  If you
have a suggestion on how to fix it, include that as well.</p>
<p>You can also open a discussion item on our
<a class="reference external" href="https://discuss.python.org/c/documentation/26">Documentation Discourse forum</a><span class="link-target"> [https://discuss.python.org/c/documentation/26]</span>.</p>
<p>If you find a bug in the theme (HTML / CSS / JavaScript) of the
documentation, please submit a bug report on the <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme">python-doc-theme bug
tracker</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme]</span>.</p>
<p>If you’re short on time, you can also email documentation bug reports to
<a class="reference external" href="mailto:docs%40python.org">docs<span>@</span>python<span>.</span>org</a> (behavioral bugs can be sent to <a class="reference external" href="mailto:python-list%40python.org">python-list<span>@</span>python<span>.</span>org</a>).
‘docs@’ is a mailing list run by volunteers; your request will be noticed,
though it may take a while to be processed.</p>
<div class="admonition seealso">
<p class="admonition-title">See also</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/python/cpython/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Adocs">Documentation bugs</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/python/cpython/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Adocs]</span></dt>
<dd><p>A list of documentation bugs that have been submitted to the Python issue tracker.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://devguide.python.org/tracker/">Issue Tracking</a><span class="link-target"> [https://devguide.python.org/tracker/]</span></dt>
<dd><p>Overview of the process involved in reporting an improvement on the tracker.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://devguide.python.org/docquality/#helping-with-documentation">Helping with Documentation</a><span class="link-target"> [https://devguide.python.org/docquality/#helping-with-documentation]</span></dt>
<dd><p>Comprehensive guide for individuals that are interested in contributing to Python documentation.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://devguide.python.org/documentation/translating/">Documentation Translations</a><span class="link-target"> [https://devguide.python.org/documentation/translating/]</span></dt>
<dd><p>A list of GitHub pages for documentation translation and their primary contacts.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
</section>
<section id="using-the-python-issue-tracker">
<span id="using-the-tracker"></span><h2 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Using the Python issue tracker</h2>
<p>Issue reports for Python itself should be submitted via the GitHub issues
tracker (<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/python/cpython/issues">https://github.com/python/cpython/issues</a>).
The GitHub issues tracker offers a web form which allows pertinent information
to be entered and submitted to the developers.</p>
<p>The first step in filing a report is to determine whether the problem has
already been reported.  The advantage in doing so, aside from saving the
developers’ time, is that you learn what has been done to fix it; it may be that
the problem has already been fixed for the next release, or additional
information is needed (in which case you are welcome to provide it if you can!).
To do this, search the tracker using the search box at the top of the page.</p>
<p>If the problem you’re reporting is not already in the list, log in to GitHub.
If you don’t already have a GitHub account, create a new account using the
“Sign up” link.
It is not possible to submit a bug report anonymously.</p>
<p>Being now logged in, you can submit an issue.
Click on the “New issue” button in the top bar to report a new issue.</p>
<p>The submission form has two fields, “Title” and “Comment”.</p>
<p>For the “Title” field, enter a <em>very</em> short description of the problem;
fewer than ten words is good.</p>
<p>In the “Comment” field, describe the problem in detail, including what you
expected to happen and what did happen.  Be sure to include whether any
extension modules were involved, and what hardware and software platform you
were using (including version information as appropriate).</p>
<p>Each issue report will be reviewed by a developer who will determine what needs to
be done to correct the problem. You will receive an update each time an action is
taken on the issue.</p>
<div class="admonition seealso">
<p class="admonition-title">See also</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html">How to Report Bugs Effectively</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html]</span></dt>
<dd><p>Article which goes into some detail about how to create a useful bug report.
This describes what kind of information is useful and why it is useful.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/page.cgi?id=bug-writing.html">Bug Writing Guidelines</a><span class="link-target"> [https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/page.cgi?id=bug-writing.html]</span></dt>
<dd><p>Information about writing a good bug report.  Some of this is specific to the
Mozilla project, but describes general good practices.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
</section>
<section id="getting-started-contributing-to-python-yourself">
<span id="contributing-to-python"></span><h2 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Getting started contributing to Python yourself</h2>
<p>Beyond just reporting bugs that you find, you are also welcome to submit
patches to fix them.  You can find more information on how to get started
patching Python in the <a class="reference external" href="https://devguide.python.org/">Python Developer’s Guide</a><span class="link-target"> [https://devguide.python.org/]</span>.  If you have questions,
the <a class="reference external" href="https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/core-mentorship.python.org/">core-mentorship mailing list</a><span class="link-target"> [https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/core-mentorship.python.org/]</span> is a friendly place to get answers to
any and all questions pertaining to the process of fixing issues in Python.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
</body>
</html>