<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<meta property="og:title" content="Introduction" />
<meta property="og:type" content="website" />
<meta property="og:url" content="https://docs.python.org/3/library/intro.xhtml" />
<meta property="og:site_name" content="Python documentation" />
<meta property="og:description" content="The “Python library” contains several different kinds of components. It contains data types that would normally be considered part of the “core” of a language, such as numbers and lists. For these ..." />
<meta property="og:image" content="https://docs.python.org/3/_static/og-image.png" />
<meta property="og:image:alt" content="Python documentation" />
<meta name="description" content="The “Python library” contains several different kinds of components. It contains data types that would normally be considered part of the “core” of a language, such as numbers and lists. For these ..." />
<meta property="og:image:width" content="200" />
<meta property="og:image:height" content="200" />
<meta name="theme-color" content="#3776ab" />

    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" />
    
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.python.org/3/library/intro.html" />
    
      
    

    
    <style>
      @media only screen {
        table.full-width-table {
            width: 100%;
        }
      }
    </style>
 

  </head><body>


    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="introduction">
<span id="library-intro"></span><h1>Introduction</h1>
<p>The “Python library” contains several different kinds of components.</p>
<p>It contains data types that would normally be considered part of the “core” of a
language, such as numbers and lists.  For these types, the Python language core
defines the form of literals and places some constraints on their semantics, but
does not fully define the semantics.  (On the other hand, the language core does
define syntactic properties like the spelling and priorities of operators.)</p>
<p>The library also contains built-in functions and exceptions — objects that can
be used by all Python code without the need of an <a class="reference internal" href="../reference/simple_stmts.xhtml#import"><code class="xref std std-keyword docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">import</span></code></a> statement.
Some of these are defined by the core language, but many are not essential for
the core semantics and are only described here.</p>
<p>The bulk of the library, however, consists of a collection of modules. There are
many ways to dissect this collection.  Some modules are written in C and built
in to the Python interpreter; others are written in Python and imported in
source form.  Some modules provide interfaces that are highly specific to
Python, like printing a stack trace; some provide interfaces that are specific
to particular operating systems, such as access to specific hardware; others
provide interfaces that are specific to a particular application domain, like
the World Wide Web. Some modules are available in all versions and ports of
Python; others are only available when the underlying system supports or
requires them; yet others are available only when a particular configuration
option was chosen at the time when Python was compiled and installed.</p>
<p>This manual is organized “from the inside out:” it first describes the built-in
functions, data types and exceptions, and finally the modules, grouped in
chapters of related modules.</p>
<p>This means that if you start reading this manual from the start, and skip to the
next chapter when you get bored, you will get a reasonable overview of the
available modules and application areas that are supported by the Python
library.  Of course, you don’t <em>have</em> to read it like a novel — you can also
browse the table of contents (in front of the manual), or look for a specific
function, module or term in the index (in the back).  And finally, if you enjoy
learning about random subjects, you choose a random page number (see module
<a class="reference internal" href="random.xhtml#module-random" title="random: Generate pseudo-random numbers with various common distributions."><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">random</span></code></a>) and read a section or two.  Regardless of the order in which you
read the sections of this manual, it helps to start with chapter
<a class="reference internal" href="functions.xhtml#built-in-funcs"><span class="std std-ref">Built-in Functions</span></a>, as the remainder of the manual assumes familiarity with
this material.</p>
<p>Let the show begin!</p>
<section id="notes-on-availability">
<span id="availability"></span><h2>Notes on availability</h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>An “Availability: Unix” note means that this function is commonly found on
Unix systems.  It does not make any claims about its existence on a specific
operating system.</p></li>
<li><p>If not separately noted, all functions that claim “Availability: Unix” are
supported on macOS, iOS and Android, all of which build on a Unix core.</p></li>
<li><p>If an availability note contains both a minimum Kernel version and a minimum
libc version, then both conditions must hold. For example a feature with note
<em>Availability: Linux &gt;= 3.17 with glibc &gt;= 2.27</em> requires both Linux 3.17 or
newer and glibc 2.27 or newer.</p></li>
</ul>
<section id="webassembly-platforms">
<span id="wasm-availability"></span><h3>WebAssembly platforms</h3>
<p>The <a class="reference external" href="https://webassembly.org/">WebAssembly</a><span class="link-target"> [https://webassembly.org/]</span> platforms <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">wasm32-emscripten</span></code> (<a class="reference external" href="https://emscripten.org/">Emscripten</a><span class="link-target"> [https://emscripten.org/]</span>) and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">wasm32-wasi</span></code> (<a class="reference external" href="https://wasi.dev/">WASI</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wasi.dev/]</span>) provide a subset of POSIX APIs. WebAssembly runtimes
and browsers are sandboxed and have limited access to the host and external
resources. Any Python standard library module that uses processes, threading,
networking, signals, or other forms of inter-process communication (IPC), is
either not available or may not work as on other Unix-like systems. File I/O,
file system, and Unix permission-related functions are restricted, too.
Emscripten does not permit blocking I/O. Other blocking operations like
<a class="reference internal" href="time.xhtml#time.sleep" title="time.sleep"><code class="xref py py-func docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sleep()</span></code></a> block the browser event loop.</p>
<p>The properties and behavior of Python on WebAssembly platforms depend on the
<a class="reference external" href="https://emscripten.org/">Emscripten</a><span class="link-target"> [https://emscripten.org/]</span>-SDK or <a class="reference external" href="https://wasi.dev/">WASI</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wasi.dev/]</span>-SDK version, WASM runtimes (browser, NodeJS,
<a class="reference external" href="https://wasmtime.dev/">wasmtime</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wasmtime.dev/]</span>), and Python build time flags. WebAssembly, Emscripten, and WASI
are evolving standards; some features like networking may be
supported in the future.</p>
<p>For Python in the browser, users should consider <a class="reference external" href="https://pyodide.org/">Pyodide</a><span class="link-target"> [https://pyodide.org/]</span> or <a class="reference external" href="https://pyscript.net/">PyScript</a><span class="link-target"> [https://pyscript.net/]</span>.
PyScript is built on top of Pyodide, which itself is built on top of
CPython and Emscripten. Pyodide provides access to browsers’ JavaScript and
DOM APIs as well as limited networking capabilities with JavaScript’s
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">XMLHttpRequest</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">Fetch</span></code> APIs.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Process-related APIs are not available or always fail with an error. That
includes APIs that spawn new processes (<a class="reference internal" href="os.xhtml#os.fork" title="os.fork"><code class="xref py py-func docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fork()</span></code></a>,
<a class="reference internal" href="os.xhtml#os.execve" title="os.execve"><code class="xref py py-func docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">execve()</span></code></a>), wait for processes (<a class="reference internal" href="os.xhtml#os.waitpid" title="os.waitpid"><code class="xref py py-func docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">waitpid()</span></code></a>), send signals
(<a class="reference internal" href="os.xhtml#os.kill" title="os.kill"><code class="xref py py-func docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">kill()</span></code></a>), or otherwise interact with processes. The
<a class="reference internal" href="subprocess.xhtml#module-subprocess" title="subprocess: Subprocess management."><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">subprocess</span></code></a> is importable but does not work.</p></li>
<li><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="socket.xhtml#module-socket" title="socket: Low-level networking interface."><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">socket</span></code></a> module is available, but is limited and behaves
differently from other platforms. On Emscripten, sockets are always
non-blocking and require additional JavaScript code and helpers on the
server to proxy TCP through WebSockets; see <a class="reference external" href="https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/networking.html">Emscripten Networking</a><span class="link-target"> [https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/networking.html]</span>
for more information. WASI snapshot preview 1 only permits sockets from an
existing file descriptor.</p></li>
<li><p>Some functions are stubs that either don’t do anything and always return
hardcoded values.</p></li>
<li><p>Functions related to file descriptors, file permissions, file ownership, and
links are limited and don’t support some operations. For example, WASI does
not permit symlinks with absolute file names.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="mobile-platforms">
<span id="ios-availability"></span><span id="mobile-availability"></span><h3>Mobile platforms</h3>
<p>Android and iOS are, in most respects, POSIX operating systems. File I/O, socket handling,
and threading all behave as they would on any POSIX operating system. However,
there are several major differences:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Mobile platforms can only use Python in “embedded” mode. There is no Python
REPL, and no ability to use separate executables such as <strong class="program">python</strong> or
<strong class="program">pip</strong>. To add Python code to your mobile app, you must use
the <a class="reference internal" href="../extending/embedding.xhtml#embedding"><span class="std std-ref">Python embedding API</span></a>. For more details, see
<a class="reference internal" href="../using/android.xhtml#using-android"><span class="std std-ref">Using Python on Android</span></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="../using/ios.xhtml#using-ios"><span class="std std-ref">Using Python on iOS</span></a>.</p></li>
<li><p>Subprocesses:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>On Android, creating subprocesses is possible but <a class="reference external" href="https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/128554619#comment4">officially unsupported</a><span class="link-target"> [https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/128554619#comment4]</span>.
In particular, Android does not support any part of the System V IPC API,
so <a class="reference internal" href="multiprocessing.xhtml#module-multiprocessing" title="multiprocessing: Process-based parallelism."><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">multiprocessing</span></code></a> is not available.</p></li>
<li><p>An iOS app cannot use any form of subprocessing, multiprocessing, or
inter-process communication. If an iOS app attempts to create a subprocess,
the process creating the subprocess will either lock up, or crash. An iOS app
has no visibility of other applications that are running, nor any ability to
communicate with other running applications, outside of the iOS-specific APIs
that exist for this purpose.</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Mobile apps have limited access to modify system resources (such as the system
clock). These resources will often be <em>readable</em>, but attempts to modify
those resources will usually fail.</p></li>
<li><p>Console input and output:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>On Android, the native <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdout</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stderr</span></code> are not connected to
anything, so Python installs its own streams which redirect messages to the
system log. These can be seen under the tags <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">python.stdout</span></code> and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">python.stderr</span></code> respectively.</p></li>
<li><p>iOS apps have a limited concept of console output. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdout</span></code> and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stderr</span></code> <em>exist</em>, and content written to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdout</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stderr</span></code> will be
visible in logs when running in Xcode, but this content <em>won’t</em> be recorded
in the system log. If a user who has installed your app provides their app
logs as a diagnostic aid, they will not include any detail written to
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdout</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stderr</span></code>.</p></li>
<li><p>Mobile apps have no usable <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdin</span></code> at all. While apps can display an on-screen
keyboard, this is a software feature, not something that is attached to
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stdin</span></code>.</p>
<p>As a result, Python modules that involve console manipulation (such as
<a class="reference internal" href="curses.xhtml#module-curses" title="curses: An interface to the curses library, providing portable terminal handling. (Unix)"><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">curses</span></code></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="readline.xhtml#module-readline" title="readline: GNU readline support for Python. (Unix)"><code class="xref py py-mod docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">readline</span></code></a>) are not available on mobile platforms.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>