<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<meta property="og:title" content="13. What Now?" />
<meta property="og:type" content="website" />
<meta property="og:url" content="https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/whatnow.xhtml" />
<meta property="og:site_name" content="Python documentation" />
<meta property="og:description" content="Reading this tutorial has probably reinforced your interest in using Python — you should be eager to apply Python to solving your real-world problems. Where should you go to learn more? This tutori..." />
<meta property="og:image" content="https://docs.python.org/3/_static/og-image.png" />
<meta property="og:image:alt" content="Python documentation" />
<meta name="description" content="Reading this tutorial has probably reinforced your interest in using Python — you should be eager to apply Python to solving your real-world problems. Where should you go to learn more? This tutori..." />
<meta property="og:image:width" content="200" />
<meta property="og:image:height" content="200" />
<meta name="theme-color" content="#3776ab" />

    <title>13. What Now?</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" />
    
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/whatnow.html" />
    
      
    

    
    <style>
      @media only screen {
        table.full-width-table {
            width: 100%;
        }
      }
    </style>
 

  </head><body>


    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="what-now">
<span id="tut-whatnow"></span><h1><span class="section-number">13. </span>What Now?</h1>
<p>Reading this tutorial has probably reinforced your interest in using Python —
you should be eager to apply Python to solving your real-world problems. Where
should you go to learn more?</p>
<p>This tutorial is part of Python’s documentation set.   Some other documents in
the set are:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="../library/index.xhtml#library-index"><span class="std std-ref">The Python Standard Library</span></a>:</p>
<p>You should browse through this manual, which gives complete (though terse)
reference material about types, functions, and the modules in the standard
library.  The standard Python distribution includes a <em>lot</em> of additional code.
There are modules to read Unix mailboxes, retrieve documents via HTTP, generate
random numbers, parse command-line options, compress data,
and many other tasks. Skimming through the Library Reference will give you an
idea of what’s available.</p>
</li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="../installing/index.xhtml#installing-index"><span class="std std-ref">Installing Python Modules</span></a> explains how to install additional modules written
by other Python users.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="../reference/index.xhtml#reference-index"><span class="std std-ref">The Python Language Reference</span></a>: A detailed explanation of Python’s syntax and
semantics.  It’s heavy reading, but is useful as a complete guide to the
language itself.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>More Python resources:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://www.python.org">https://www.python.org</a>:  The major Python web site.  It contains code,
documentation, and pointers to Python-related pages around the web.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://docs.python.org">https://docs.python.org</a>:  Fast access to Python’s  documentation.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://pypi.org">https://pypi.org</a>: The Python Package Index, previously also nicknamed
the Cheese Shop <a class="footnote-reference brackets" href="#id2" id="id1" role="doc-noteref"><span class="fn-bracket">[</span>1<span class="fn-bracket">]</span></a>, is an index of user-created Python modules that are available
for download.  Once you begin releasing code, you can register it here so that
others can find it.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://code.activestate.com/recipes/langs/python/">https://code.activestate.com/recipes/langs/python/</a>: The Python Cookbook is a
sizable collection of code examples, larger modules, and useful scripts.
Particularly notable contributions are collected in a book also titled Python
Cookbook (O’Reilly &amp; Associates, ISBN 0-596-00797-3.)</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://pyvideo.org">https://pyvideo.org</a> collects links to Python-related videos from
conferences and user-group meetings.</p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference external" href="https://scipy.org">https://scipy.org</a>: The Scientific Python project includes modules for fast
array computations and manipulations plus a host of packages for such
things as linear algebra, Fourier transforms, non-linear solvers,
random number distributions, statistical analysis and the like.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For Python-related questions and problem reports, you can post to the newsgroup
<em class="newsgroup">comp.lang.python</em>, or send them to the mailing list at
<a class="reference external" href="mailto:python-list&#37;&#52;&#48;python&#46;org">python-list<span>&#64;</span>python<span>&#46;</span>org</a>.  The newsgroup and mailing list are gatewayed, so
messages posted to one will automatically be forwarded to the other.  There are
hundreds of postings a day, asking (and
answering) questions, suggesting new features, and announcing new modules.
Mailing list archives are available at <a class="reference external" href="https://mail.python.org/pipermail/">https://mail.python.org/pipermail/</a>.</p>
<p>Before posting, be sure to check the list of
<a class="reference internal" href="../faq/index.xhtml#faq-index"><span class="std std-ref">Frequently Asked Questions</span></a> (also called the FAQ).  The
FAQ answers many of the questions that come up again and again, and may
already contain the solution for your problem.</p>
<p class="rubric">Footnotes</p>
<aside class="footnote-list brackets">
<aside class="footnote brackets" id="id2" role="doc-footnote">
<span class="label"><span class="fn-bracket">[</span><a role="doc-backlink" href="#id1">1</a><span class="fn-bracket">]</span></span>
<p>“Cheese Shop” is a Monty Python’s sketch: a customer enters a cheese shop,
but whatever cheese he asks for, the clerk says it’s missing.</p>
</aside>
</aside>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>