<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
<meta property="og:title" content="“Why is Python Installed on my Computer?” FAQ" />
<meta property="og:type" content="website" />
<meta property="og:url" content="https://docs.python.org/3/faq/installed.xhtml" />
<meta property="og:site_name" content="Python documentation" />
<meta property="og:description" content="What is Python?: Python is a programming language. It’s used for many different applications. It’s used in some high schools and colleges as an introductory programming language because Python is e..." />
<meta property="og:image" content="https://docs.python.org/3/_static/og-image.png" />
<meta property="og:image:alt" content="Python documentation" />
<meta name="description" content="What is Python?: Python is a programming language. It’s used for many different applications. It’s used in some high schools and colleges as an introductory programming language because Python is e..." />
<meta property="og:image:width" content="200" />
<meta property="og:image:height" content="200" />
<meta name="theme-color" content="#3776ab" />

    <title>“Why is Python Installed on my Computer?” FAQ</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" />
    
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.python.org/3/faq/installed.html" />
    
      
    

    
    <style>
      @media only screen {
        table.full-width-table {
            width: 100%;
        }
      }
    </style>
 

  </head><body>


    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="why-is-python-installed-on-my-computer-faq">
<h1>“Why is Python Installed on my Computer?” FAQ</h1>
<section id="what-is-python">
<h2>What is Python?</h2>
<p>Python is a programming language.  It’s used for many different applications.
It’s used in some high schools and colleges as an introductory programming
language because Python is easy to learn, but it’s also used by professional
software developers at places such as Google, NASA, and Lucasfilm Ltd.</p>
<p>If you wish to learn more about Python, start with the <a class="reference external" href="https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide">Beginner’s Guide to
Python</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide]</span>.</p>
</section>
<section id="why-is-python-installed-on-my-machine">
<h2>Why is Python installed on my machine?</h2>
<p>If you find Python installed on your system but don’t remember installing it,
there are several possible ways it could have gotten there.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Perhaps another user on the computer wanted to learn programming and installed
it; you’ll have to figure out who’s been using the machine and might have
installed it.</p></li>
<li><p>A third-party application installed on the machine might have been written in
Python and included a Python installation.  There are many such applications,
from GUI programs to network servers and administrative scripts.</p></li>
<li><p>Some Windows machines also have Python installed.  At this writing we’re aware
of computers from Hewlett-Packard and Compaq that include Python.  Apparently
some of HP/Compaq’s administrative tools are written in Python.</p></li>
<li><p>Many Unix-compatible operating systems, such as macOS and some Linux
distributions, have Python installed by default; it’s included in the base
installation.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="can-i-delete-python">
<h2>Can I delete Python?</h2>
<p>That depends on where Python came from.</p>
<p>If someone installed it deliberately, you can remove it without hurting
anything.  On Windows, use the Add/Remove Programs icon in the Control Panel.</p>
<p>If Python was installed by a third-party application, you can also remove it,
but that application will no longer work.  You should use that application’s
uninstaller rather than removing Python directly.</p>
<p>If Python came with your operating system, removing it is not recommended.  If
you remove it, whatever tools were written in Python will no longer run, and
some of them might be important to you.  Reinstalling the whole system would
then be required to fix things again.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>